FIJI PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 3, April 2010
Copyright (C) 2009, 2013 Fiji Systems, Inc.
19039 Auten Rd.
South Bend, IN  46637
USA

NOTICE TO USER - READ CAREFULLY: This FIJI Public License ("License") is 
a legal agreement between You (You may be referred to in this License as 
"Licensee") and Fiji Systems, Inc. (which may be referred to in this 
License as "FIJI" or "Licensor"). THE SOFTWARE PRODUCT (AS DEFINED 
BELOW) IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS FIJI PUBLIC LICENSE AND IS 
PROTECTED BY COPYRIGHT AND OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.  ANY USE OF THE 
SOFTWARE PRODUCT OTHER THAN AS AUTHORIZED UNDER THIS LICENSE OR 
COPYRIGHT LAW IS PROHIBITED. THE LICENSOR GRANTS YOU THE RIGHTS PROVIDED 
HEREIN IN CONSIDERATION OF YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
OF THIS AGREEMENT.  BY INSTALLING, COPYING, DOWNLOADING, ACCESSING, 
USING OR OTHERWISE EXERCISING ANY RIGHTS TO ANY WORK (AS DEFINED BELOW), 
YOU ACCEPT AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE.

1.  SOFTWARE PRODUCT

The Software Product includes the Fiji VM software and any associated 
open source software, media, printed materials and electronic 
documentation.  The Software Product also includes any software updates, 
add-on components, and/or supplements that FIJI may provide to Licensee 
or make available to Licensee after the date Licensee obtains an initial 
copy of the Software Product to the extent that such items are not 
accompanied by a separate license agreement or terms of use.  
Specifically, the Software Product includes the following components:

- Fiji VM software.  The Fiji VM software includes the Fiji VM compiler 
(bin/, common/, compiler/, util/), the Fiji VM runtime (runtimej/,
runtimec/, hardrtj/), and a test suite (test/).

- ASM.  The Fiji VM compiler requires the presence of ASM, a binary 
distribution of which is included in the Software Product.  ASM is 
licensed under the ASM License provided below.

- Marsenne Twister.  The Fiji VM runtime includes the Marsenne Twister, 
a binary distribution of which is included in the Software Product.  
Marsenne Twister is licensed under the Marsenne Twister License provided 
below.

- Jasmin.  The test suite requires the presence of Jasmin, a binary 
distribution of which is included in the Software Product.  Jasmin is 
licensed under the Jasmin License provided below.

- ECJ.  For convenience, the Software Product includes a copy of the
ECJ Java-to-bytecode compiler (ecj/).  Both source code and binary
code are included.  Using ECJ is optional; a different compiler may
be used by specifying --with-java-compiler to ./configure.

- Open Source software.  The Open Source software included in the 
Software Product is licensed under the GNU General Public License 
version 2 with the Classpath Exception and/or the GNU Lesser General
Public License version 2.1 or 3,  which are attached below.

The GNU General Public License version 2 with the Classpath Exception
governs the following portions of the Software Product:

  - FijiCore (fijicore/) and FijiRT (fijirt/) libraries 
  - GNU Classpath interface glue (cpruntime/)

FijiCore is a combination of GNU Classpath (Copyright (c) 1998-2005 Free 
Software Foundation, Inc) and OpenJDK (Copyright 1994-2006 Sun 
Microsystems), with additional code developed by Fiji Systems, Inc.  Both 
GNU Classpath and OpenJDK are licensed under the GNU General Public 
License version 2.  In the case of Classpath, all files carry the 
appended special exception.  OpenJDK only provides the exception for 
some, but not all, files; only those files that carry the exception are 
included in FijiCore.

The GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1 governs the fast MD5
algorithm implementation (fast-md5/) included with the Software Product.

The GNU Lesser General Public License version 3 governs the oSCJ
software package (scjruntime/) included with the Software Product.

2.  DEFINITIONS

a. "Adaptation" means a work based upon the Software Product or an 
Adaptation of the Software Product including without limitation 
translations and derivative works thereof in which the Work may be 
recast, transformed, or adapted.

b. "Work" means any original work of authorship offered under the terms 
of this License including without limitation the Software Product, any 
Adaptation of a Work and any Output Code.

c. "Output Code" means any code in any format which is created by using 
a Work or Adaptation including, without limitation, executable code 
generated by the Fiji VM compiler.

d. "You" means an individual or entity exercising rights under this 
License who has not previously violated the terms of this License, or 
who has received express permission from the Licensor to exercise rights 
under this License despite a previous violation.

3.   GRANT OF RIGHTS. 

Subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions of this License, 
Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, 
perpetual license to use, reproduce, distribute and make Adaptations of 
the Work, and to use, reproduce and distribute the Output Code.

4.  CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS. 

You may exercise the rights granted in Section 3 above subject to the 
following conditions and restrictions:

a. Non-Commercial Use.  You may not exercise any of the rights granted 
to You in Section 3 above, including the right to use and distribute the 
Output Code, in any manner that is primarily intended for or directed 
toward commercial advantage or private monetary compensation.  The 
exchange of the Work for other copyrighted works shall not be considered 
to be intended for or directed toward commercial advantage or private 
monetary compensation, provided there is no payment of any monetary 
compensation in connection with the exchange of copyrighted works.

b. Adaptations.  If You make an Adaptation of a Work, You must license 
the Adaptation under the same terms of this License.  You must also 
cause any modified file to carry a prominent notice stating that the 
file was modified and including the date of such modification.  For the 
avoidance of doubt, the rights granted in Section 3 are not subject to 
any grant-back provisions.  Furthermore, any Adaptations You may make to 
the Work will not be incorporated into the Software Product.

c. Inclusion and Display of FIJI Public License and Notices.  You must 
include a copy of this License (including the disclaimer of warranties) 
with every copy of a Work and Output Code (where practicable) that You 
distribute.  You must keep intact all notices and attributions that 
refer to this License.  You must cause the Output Code to print or 
display an announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a 
disclaimer of warranties notice.

d. No Additional Conditions.  You may not offer or impose any terms on a 
Work that restrict the terms of this License or the ability of the 
recipient of the Work to exercise the rights granted to that recipient 
under the terms of this License.  You may not sublicense the Work.  When 
You distribute the Work, You may not impose any effective technological 
measures on the Work that restrict the ability of a recipient of the 
Work to exercise the rights granted to that recipient under the terms of 
this License.

e. No Endorsement.  You may not implicitly or explicitly assert or imply 
any connection with, sponsorship or endorsement by any original author, 
of You or Your use of the Work, without the separate, express prior 
written permission of the original author.

f. No Derogatory Action.  You must not distort, mutilate, modify or take 
other derogatory action in relation to the Work which would be 
prejudicial to the original author's honor or reputation.

g. Licensing Schemes.  Licensor reserves the exclusive right to collect 
or waive any statutory or compulsory licensing royalties for any 
exercise by You of the rights granted under this License.

5.   REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND DISCLAIMER

UNLESS OTHERWISE MUTUALLY AGREED BY THE PARTIES IN WRITING, LICENSOR 
OFFERS THE WORK AS-IS AND MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY 
KIND CONCERNING THE WORK, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, 
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES OF TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY, 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NONINFRINGEMENT, OR THE ABSENCE OF 
LATENT OR OTHER DEFECTS, ACCURACY, OR THE PRESENCE OF ABSENCE OF ERRORS, 
WHETHER OR NOT DISCOVERABLE.

6.   LIMITATION ON LIABILITY. 

EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL 
LICENSOR BE LIABLE TO YOU ON ANY LEGAL THEORY FOR ANY SPECIAL, 
INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF 
THIS LICENSE OR THE USE OF THE WORK, EVEN IF LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED 
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

7.  TERMINATION

a. This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate 
automatically upon any breach by You of the terms of this License.

b. Notwithstanding the above, FIJI reserves the right to release the 
Work under different license terms or to stop distributing the Work at 
any time.  Any such action will not serve to withdraw this License (or 
any other license that has been, or is required to be, granted under the 
terms of this License), and this License will continue in full force and 
effect unless terminated as stated in Section 7(a).

8.  MISCELLANEOUS

a. Each time You distribute a Work, the Licensor offers to the recipient 
a license to the Work on the same terms and conditions granted to You 
under this License.

b. If any provision of this License is invalid or unenforceable under 
applicable law, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the 
validity or enforceability of the remainder of the terms of this 
License, and without further action by the parties to this agreement, 
such provision shall be reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make 
such provision valid and enforceable.

c. No term or provision of this License shall be deemed waived and no 
breach consented to unless such waiver or consent is in writing and 
signed by the party to be charged with such waiver or consent.

d. This License constitutes the entire agreement between the parties 
with respect to the Work licensed here.  There are no understandings, 
agreements or representations with respect to the Work not specified 
here.  Licensor shall not be bound by any additional provisions that may 
appear in any communication from You.  This License may not be modified 
without the mutual written agreement of the Licensor and You.

END OF FIJI PUBLIC LICENSE


GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

                    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 2, June 1991
  
   Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
       51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
   Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
   of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.
  
                            Preamble
  
    The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
  freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
  License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
  software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.  This
  General Public License applies to most of the Free Software
  Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to
  using it.  (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by
  the GNU Library General Public License instead.)  You can apply it to
  your programs, too.
  
    When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
  price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
  have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
  this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
  if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it
  in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.
  
    To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
  anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
  These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
  distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.
  
    For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
  gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
  you have.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
  source code.  And you must show them these terms so they know their
  rights.
  
    We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and
  (2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
  distribute and/or modify the software.
  
    Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
  that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
  software.  If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
  want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
  that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
  authors' reputations.
  
    Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
  patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free
  program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
  program proprietary.  To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
  patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.
  
    The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
  modification follow.
  
                    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
     TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION
  
    0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains
  a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
  under the terms of this General Public License.  The "Program", below,
  refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on the Program"
  means either the Program or any derivative work under copyright law:
  that is to say, a work containing the Program or a portion of it,
  either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another
  language.  (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in
  the term "modification".)  Each licensee is addressed as "you".
  
  Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
  covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
  running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the Program
  is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the
  Program (independent of having been made by running the Program).
  Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.
  
    1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's
  source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
  conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
  copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the
  notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty;
  and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
  along with the Program.
  
  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
  you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.
  
    2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion
  of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and
  distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
  above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:
  
      a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
      stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.
  
      b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in
      whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any
      part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third
      parties under the terms of this License.
  
      c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively
      when run, you must cause it, when started running for such
      interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display an
      announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a
      notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide
      a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under
      these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this
      License.  (Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but
      does not normally print such an announcement, your work based on
      the Program is not required to print an announcement.)
  
  These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
  identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Program,
  and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
  themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
  sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
  distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
  on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
  this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
  entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.
  
  Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
  your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
  exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
  collective works based on the Program.
  
  In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program
  with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of
  a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
  the scope of this License.
  
    3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
  under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
  Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:
  
      a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
      source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections
      1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,
  
      b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
      years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
      cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
      machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be
      distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium
      customarily used for software interchange; or,
  
      c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer
      to distribute corresponding source code.  (This alternative is
      allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
      received the program in object code or executable form with such
      an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)
  
  The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for
  making modifications to it.  For an executable work, complete source
  code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any
  associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to
  control compilation and installation of the executable.  However, as a
  special exception, the source code distributed need not include
  anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary
  form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
  operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
  itself accompanies the executable.
  
  If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering
  access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
  access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
  distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not
  compelled to copy the source along with the object code.
  
    4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
  except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt
  otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is
  void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
  However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under
  this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
  parties remain in full compliance.
  
    5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
  signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
  distribute the Program or its derivative works.  These actions are
  prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
  modifying or distributing the Program (or any work based on the
  Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
  all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
  the Program or works based on it.
  
    6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
  Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
  original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to
  these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
  restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
  You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
  this License.
  
    7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
  infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
  conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
  otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
  excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
  distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
  License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
  may not distribute the Program at all.  For example, if a patent
  license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by
  all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
  the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
  refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.
  
  If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under
  any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to
  apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other
  circumstances.
  
  It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
  patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
  such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
  integrity of the free software distribution system, which is
  implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
  generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
  through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
  system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
  to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
  impose that choice.
  
  This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
  be a consequence of the rest of this License.
  
    8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in
  certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
  original copyright holder who places the Program under this License
  may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding
  those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among
  countries not thus excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates
  the limitation as if written in the body of this License.
  
    9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
  of the General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will
  be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
  address new problems or concerns.
  
  Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program
  specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any
  later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions
  either of that version or of any later version published by the Free
  Software Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of
  this License, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software
  Foundation.
  
    10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
  programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author
  to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free
  Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes
  make exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals
  of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and
  of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.
  
                            NO WARRANTY
  
    11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
  FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN
  OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
  PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
  OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS
  TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE
  PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
  REPAIR OR CORRECTION.
  
    12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
  WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
  REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
  INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
  OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
  TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY
  YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER
  PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
  
                     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS
  
            How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs
  
    If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
  possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
  free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.
  
    To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest
  to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
  convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
  the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.
  
      <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
      Copyright (C) 19yy  <name of author>
  
      This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
      it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
      the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
      (at your option) any later version.
  
      This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
      but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
      MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
      GNU General Public License for more details.
  
      You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
      along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
      Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
  
  
  Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.
  
  If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this
  when it starts in an interactive mode:
  
      Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) 19yy name of author
      Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
      This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
      under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.
  
  The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
  parts of the General Public License.  Of course, the commands you use may
  be called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be
  mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.
  
  You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
  school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
  necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:
  
    Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
    `Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.
  
    <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989
    Ty Coon, President of Vice

  GNU CLASSPATH SPECIAL EXCEPTION

  Linking this library statically or dynamically with other modules is
  making a combined work based on this library.  Thus, the terms and
  conditions of the GNU General Public License cover the whole
  combination.
 
  As a special exception, the copyright holders of this library give you
  permission to link this library with independent modules to produce an
  executable, regardless of the license terms of these independent
  modules, and to copy and distribute the resulting executable under
  terms of your choice, provided that you also meet, for each linked
  independent module, the terms and conditions of the license of that
  module.  An independent module is a module which is not derived from
  or based on this library.  If you modify this library, you may extend
  this exception to your version of the library, but you are not
  obligated to do so.  If you do not wish to do so, delete this
  exception statement from your version.


MARSENNE TWISTER LICENSE

  Marsenne Twister, coded by Takuji Nishimura nad Makoto Matsumoto
  Copyright (c) 2006,2007 Mutsuo Saito, Makoto Matsumoto and Hiroshima
  University. All rights reserved.

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
  met:

    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
      copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
      disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
      with the distribution.
    * Neither the name of the Hiroshima University nor the names of
      its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
      derived from this software without specific prior written
      permission.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
  "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
  A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
  OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
  SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
  DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
  THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
  (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
  OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


ASM LICENSE

  Copyright (c) 2000-2005 INRIA, France Telecom
  All rights reserved.

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
  are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  3. Neither the name of the copyright holders nor the names of its
     contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
     this software without specific prior written permission.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
  THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


JASMIN LICENSE

  Copyright (c) 1996-2004, Jon Meyer
  All rights reserved.
  
  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
  met:
  
  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
  
  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
  documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
  
  Neither the name of the Jon Meyer nor the names of its contributors may
  be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
  without specific prior written permission.
  
  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS
  IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
  TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
  PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER
  OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
  EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
  PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
  PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
  NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
  SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


ECJ LICENSE

  Eclipse Public License -v 1.0

  THE ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS ECLIPSE 
  PUBLIC LICENSE ("AGREEMENT"). ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF 
  THE PROGRAM CONSTITUTES RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT.

  1. DEFINITIONS

  "Contribution" means:

  a) in the case of the initial Contributor, the initial code and 
  documentation distributed under this Agreement, and

  b) in the case of each subsequent Contributor:

    i) changes to the Program, and

    ii) additions to the Program;

  where such changes and/or additions to the Program originate from and 
  are distributed by that particular Contributor. A Contribution 
  'originates' from a Contributor if it was added to the Program by such 
  Contributor itself or anyone acting on such Contributor's behalf. 
  Contributions do not include additions to the Program which: (i) are 
  separate modules of software distributed in conjunction with the Program 
  under their own license agreement, and (ii) are not derivative works of 
  the Program.

  "Contributor" means any person or entity that distributes the Program.

  "Licensed Patents " mean patent claims licensable by a Contributor which 
  are necessarily infringed by the use or sale of its Contribution alone 
  or when combined with the Program.

  "Program" means the Contributions distributed in accordance with this 
  Agreement.

  "Recipient" means anyone who receives the Program under this Agreement, 
  including all Contributors.

  2. GRANT OF RIGHTS

  a) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby 
  grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright 
  license to reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display, 
  publicly perform, distribute and sublicense the Contribution of such 
  Contributor, if any, and such derivative works, in source code and 
  object code form.

  b) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby 
  grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent license 
  under Licensed Patents to make, use, sell, offer to sell, import and 
  otherwise transfer the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, in 
  source code and object code form. This patent license shall apply to the 
  combination of the Contribution and the Program if, at the time the 
  Contribution is added by the Contributor, such addition of the 
  Contribution causes such combination to be covered by the Licensed 
  Patents. The patent license shall not apply to any other combinations 
  which include the Contribution. No hardware per se is licensed 
  hereunder.

  c) Recipient understands that although each Contributor grants the 
  licenses to its Contributions set forth herein, no assurances are 
  provided by any Contributor that the Program does not infringe the 
  patent or other intellectual property rights of any other entity. Each 
  Contributor disclaims any liability to Recipient for claims brought by 
  any other entity based on infringement of intellectual property rights 
  or otherwise. As a condition to exercising the rights and licenses 
  granted hereunder, each Recipient hereby assumes sole responsibility to 
  secure any other intellectual property rights needed, if any. For 
  example, if a third party patent license is required to allow Recipient 
  to distribute the Program, it is Recipient's responsibility to acquire 
  that license before distributing the Program.

  d) Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient 
  copyright rights in its Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright 
  license set forth in this Agreement.

  3. REQUIREMENTS

  A Contributor may choose to distribute the Program in object code form 
  under its own license agreement, provided that:

  a) it complies with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and

  b) its license agreement:

    i) effectively disclaims on behalf of all Contributors all warranties 
    and conditions, express and implied, including warranties or conditions 
    of title and non-infringement, and implied warranties or conditions of 
    merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose;

    ii) effectively excludes on behalf of all Contributors all liability 
    for damages, including direct, indirect, special, incidental and 
    consequential damages, such as lost profits;

    iii) states that any provisions which differ from this Agreement are 
    offered by that Contributor alone and not by any other party; and

    iv) states that source code for the Program is available from such 
    Contributor, and informs licensees how to obtain it in a reasonable 
    manner on or through a medium customarily used for software exchange.

  When the Program is made available in source code form:

  a) it must be made available under this Agreement; and

  b) a copy of this Agreement must be included with each copy of the Program.

  Contributors may not remove or alter any copyright notices contained 
  within the Program.

  Each Contributor must identify itself as the originator of its 
  Contribution, if any, in a manner that reasonably allows subsequent 
  Recipients to identify the originator of the Contribution.

  4. COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION

  Commercial distributors of software may accept certain responsibilities 
  with respect to end users, business partners and the like. While this 
  license is intended to facilitate the commercial use of the Program, the 
  Contributor who includes the Program in a commercial product offering 
  should do so in a manner which does not create potential liability for 
  other Contributors. Therefore, if a Contributor includes the Program in 
  a commercial product offering, such Contributor ("Commercial 
  Contributor") hereby agrees to defend and indemnify every other 
  Contributor ("Indemnified Contributor") against any losses, damages and 
  costs (collectively "Losses") arising from claims, lawsuits and other 
  legal actions brought by a third party against the Indemnified 
  Contributor to the extent caused by the acts or omissions of such 
  Commercial Contributor in connection with its distribution of the 
  Program in a commercial product offering. The obligations in this 
  section do not apply to any claims or Losses relating to any actual or 
  alleged intellectual property infringement. In order to qualify, an 
  Indemnified Contributor must: a) promptly notify the Commercial 
  Contributor in writing of such claim, and b) allow the Commercial 
  Contributor to control, and cooperate with the Commercial Contributor 
  in, the defense and any related settlement negotiations. The Indemnified 
  Contributor may participate in any such claim at its own expense.

  For example, a Contributor might include the Program in a commercial 
  product offering, Product X. That Contributor is then a Commercial 
  Contributor. If that Commercial Contributor then makes performance 
  claims, or offers warranties related to Product X, those performance 
  claims and warranties are such Commercial Contributor's responsibility 
  alone. Under this section, the Commercial Contributor would have to 
  defend claims against the other Contributors related to those 
  performance claims and warranties, and if a court requires any other 
  Contributor to pay any damages as a result, the Commercial Contributor 
  must pay those damages.

  5. NO WARRANTY

  EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS PROVIDED 
  ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, 
  EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES 
  OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR 
  A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each Recipient is solely responsible for 
  determining the appropriateness of using and distributing the Program 
  and assumes all risks associated with its exercise of rights under this 
  Agreement , including but not limited to the risks and costs of program 
  errors, compliance with applicable laws, damage to or loss of data, 
  programs or equipment, and unavailability or interruption of operations.

  6. DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY

  EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR 
  ANY CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, 
  INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING 
  WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING 
  NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR 
  DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS GRANTED 
  HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

  7. GENERAL

  If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under 
  applicable law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of 
  the remainder of the terms of this Agreement, and without further action 
  by the parties hereto, such provision shall be reformed to the minimum 
  extent necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable.

  If Recipient institutes patent litigation against any entity (including 
  a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Program 
  itself (excluding combinations of the Program with other software or 
  hardware) infringes such Recipient's patent(s), then such Recipient's 
  rights granted under Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the date such 
  litigation is filed.

  All Recipient's rights under this Agreement shall terminate if it fails 
  to comply with any of the material terms or conditions of this Agreement 
  and does not cure such failure in a reasonable period of time after 
  becoming aware of such noncompliance. If all Recipient's rights under 
  this Agreement terminate, Recipient agrees to cease use and distribution 
  of the Program as soon as reasonably practicable. However, Recipient's 
  obligations under this Agreement and any licenses granted by Recipient 
  relating to the Program shall continue and survive.

  Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute copies of this Agreement, 
  but in order to avoid inconsistency the Agreement is copyrighted and may 
  only be modified in the following manner. The Agreement Steward reserves 
  the right to publish new versions (including revisions) of this 
  Agreement from time to time. No one other than the Agreement Steward has 
  the right to modify this Agreement. The Eclipse Foundation is the 
  initial Agreement Steward. The Eclipse Foundation may assign the 
  responsibility to serve as the Agreement Steward to a suitable separate 
  entity. Each new version of the Agreement will be given a distinguishing 
  version number. The Program (including Contributions) may always be 
  distributed subject to the version of the Agreement under which it was 
  received. In addition, after a new version of the Agreement is 
  published, Contributor may elect to distribute the Program (including 
  its Contributions) under the new version. Except as expressly stated in 
  Sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, Recipient receives no rights or licenses 
  to the intellectual property of any Contributor under this Agreement, 
  whether expressly, by implication, estoppel or otherwise. All rights in 
  the Program not expressly granted under this Agreement are reserved.

  This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of New York and the 
  intellectual property laws of the United States of America. No party to 
  this Agreement will bring a legal action under this Agreement more than 
  one year after the cause of action arose. Each party waives its rights 
  to a jury trial in any resulting litigation.
